
I recently finish the book "UltraProceced People", in the introduction the author talks about how evolution (particularly virus and immune system) are in a constant arms race. The book itself is focused on a completly different topic (food industry) but that premise really stuck me. 

The idea is that viruses are constantly evolving to hijack the infected body systems, learning how to camouflage, how to be more effective on using the host cells and DNA, and improving the way that they transmit. Similarly, the immune system keeps learning new ways to inactivate them, a wild fact is that even in our current DNA, we have inactivated viruses DNA and our own evolution created genes that inactivate those genes. A terrifying and fantastic biological warfare. 

I remember about this text recently when reflecting upon how AI as been taking over all the algorithms that we are developing on tech and non tech industries. We are building more and more sophisticated algorithms that are maximizing the revenue at the expenses of the costumers or systems, drawning our attention to screens, solving for the user elasticity to charge you as much as possible for the exact same plane ticket, the exact same subscription price, the exact same uber trip. And consumers, as humans, are not able to fight back. 

We don't have the tools to do that, we cannot fight back DNN trained with 5 million transactions and users data around the word and then trained for days using a inmense amount of GPU to fit the elasticity curve and predict the highest propensity point where you user will be at your lowest to send you a promo/ad

